I've solved 300 Le Code questions,
competed on the national level, got a
big tech software engineering job, and
even partnered with Lee Code on my
social media. But despite all that, I
still feel like I wasted my time. Here's
everything I did so you could learn from
me and do even better. In this video,
I'm going to talk about what my
motivation was, how I learned
everything, what tools I used, was it
even worth it, and if I had to relearn
everything again from scratch, what I
would do right away. Why did I do it?
I'm not going to lie to you. It's not
because I found it fun. I would be
slamming my desk in frustration, pulling
my hair out in frustration, and then it
would be like a slap across the face
when the question difficulty would say
easy. And I don't care what anybody
says. Every single person that started
out lead coding was exactly like this,
struggling with easy questions at first.
So, if it was so difficult and
frustrating, what was the point? Simply
put, it's because software engineering
interviews are harder than the job
itself. you go from solving these
incredibly complex hard leo questions
just to get a job where you make a
button slightly rounder or if you get a
complex backend job like I have, you're
never even going to use one of these
data structures and algorithms ever
again. So simply put, I am not ashamed
to admit that my sole motivation was the
money and prestige that I would get with
a big tech software engineering job.
Like if you look at the salary
differences from like my salary jumped
up from $30 an hour to close to $70 an
hour total compensation after I got my
big tech job at Amazon as a software
engineering intern. And the entire
interview process was based off of le
code questions. There was maybe 30
minutes where I had to talk about
myself. Okay, but how in the world do
you actually solve these leak code
questions? First, I'm going to be real
with you. If you are not crazy good with
your data structures and algorithms, you
have zero chance of landing a big tech
software engineering job. So, how did I
learn everything so you could copy me? I
started on the number one free resource
out there, YouTube. Abdul Buri is the
undisputed goat for data structures and
algorithms. He teaches these complex
subjects that used to take me months to
understand in one or two YouTube videos
to the point where it gets you
questioning, are your expensive ass
university classes even worth it when
you could just learn everything on
YouTube through this guy? And on top of
that, a lesserk known legend is Michael
Sambble. He'll recap all of these data
structures and algorithms that you need
to know in literally 2 minutes. It makes
no sense how he does it. I would binge
watch these guys videos and it ended up
getting me an A in both of my data
structures and algorithms classes. While
you go through the process of learning
these data structures and algorithms,
let me put you on to my favorite free
tool that I absolutely love sharing.
It's a gamecher. So, it's this website
called visualalgo.net
and they have visualizations for
literally every single thing you need to
learn. Let's say for example, you're on
the bane of every CS major's existence,
linked lists. You could go through and
visually learn how everything works from
creating, inserting, searching, and
deleting nodes in link lists and it
shows you all the code associated with
those processes right beside going
through it line by line. Like whoever
made this tool is just a lifesaver and I
cannot recommend it more. Okay, now that
you have the basics down for your data
structures and algorithms, we need to
get down to the actual solving of le
code questions. So, what questions did I
do? How did I solve them? Why did I pick
them? First, let me get one of the
easiest mistakes out of the way that I
did when I was a beginner. Do not just
go to Le Code and solve every single
question you see on there or picking
random questions. This is going to hurt
your learning so much. It's going to
leave you feeling so frustrated and
lost. And that's because there's
actually an order you have to follow to
learn everything. For example, there's
no point in learning how a dynamic
programming works before you even know
how to work with arrays or lists. So,
what I did is go to this website called
Node. The first thing you'll see is this
road map which takes you through
everything you need to learn step by
step. Now you have two options you can
follow. Their blind 75 or their kneecode
150. Honestly I would start with the
blind 75 to get all your fundamentals
down. These 75 questions are the most
frequently asked questions in big tech
interviews. And in fact I actually had
one of those 75 questions in my Amazon
interview. So in order go through those
questions solving one question every
single day. If you get stuck, start by
starring that question. Go and watch the
video solution they have because it
breaks down how to attempt to solve the
problem, a brute force approach, and
then the algorithm you're supposed to
use to optimize your time complexity
solution. And let me tell you, get it
out of your head that watching these
videos is not cheating. Copying these
answers over is not cheating yourself
out of anything. As long as you
understand what's going on and the
fundamentals, and you're able to
reproduce that a week later, which is
why you should be starting the
questions. By the way, there is nothing
wrong with watching these video
solutions. Don't let your ego or pride
get in the way because I know I used to
do that. I used to waste hours and hours
being so stubborn thinking I'm so close
to getting this when in reality I had no
chance and watching that video would
have saved me so much time. To actually
solve the question, the only coding
language you should be using in my
opinion is not JavaScript. It's not C.
It's not Java. It's Python. And this is
because Python is as close to English as
you could possibly get. So it removes
any little barrier you can have in
what's already an incredibly complex and
difficult thing to do in le coding. Now
when you first open up a problem, start
by classifying the problem that includes
what data structure it could be or what
algorithm you could use to solve it and
then go through and write out something
called the pseudo code. This is like the
step-by-step solution or the workflow
your code should follow in English. And
side note, as you get used to doing this
in your actual interviews, you're going
to be asked to talk out loud. And having
the pseudo code approach nailed down
will help an interviewer get into your
own head. So even if you get the
question wrong in the interview, they
know that you're on the right process.
And they could either help you out or
just be like, "Yeah, he knows what he's
doing. It's okay." Now, when you're done
solving this question, you're going to
use this hidden strategy that I use
that's kind of a cheat code when it
comes to these interviews. And it's as
simple as jotting down notes for every
single question you solve. This includes
what you might have found useful, what
you struggled with, what algorithms you
used, and then you color code them based
off of difficulty. So then a day before
an interview, you could read through
this cheat sheet. That way, not only
does it reinforce your learning because
you're writing down your little cheat
sheet, but it also jogs your memory.
Trust me, it's an absolute game changer.
And I'll leave my document below so you
guys can kind of reference it. Now, if
you're confused on to where to even
start, do not be overwhelmed. I got this
perfect resource for you. One of the
single best resources out there for
cracking into those big tech companies.
And the sponsor of today's video is Algo
Monster. They're so good because they
don't just teach you to memorize, they
teach you to master. And this is because
they build off of everything that I was
mentioning earlier, including that cheat
sheet, which is an absolute go to
strategy. And it's something called
patternbased learning. This is the
single best way to learn how to go
through these leak code questions,
especially for your big tech interviews,
because every single question is
actually built off of a subset of eight
patterns. So once you go through and
master those, you don't actually have to
memorize all these individual different
solutions, which you might be doing
right now. And for each of these
patterns, there are set templates that
you literally just have to learn once
and then reuse in every single one of
your solutions for coding questions that
use that pattern. It's such a good
strategy. Now, what I find super cool
and unique is their flowchart approach
to solving these LEO questions. I don't
know about you, but especially when I
was first starting out with legal
questions, I would look at the question
and be like, "Okay, so now what in the
world do I do?" And this is where the
flowchart is so clutch because it takes
you through exactly what you should do
based off of what the question is asking
you. And then when you actually go and
solve the problem, you have an AI
assistant to help you. So when you get
stuck, you don't waste hours and hours
frustrated. You just have an AI teaching
you. So, if you want to join the over 1
million users that got big tech software
engineering jobs because of Algo
Monster, I highly recommend you check
out the link in the description right
now. All right, now that brings me to
the biggest question. Was it worth it?
To me, the answer is obviously yes. As I
said earlier, I was solely motivated
financially. I would not have put myself
through the absolute hell that is
studying Le code questions if I did not
get compensated for it somehow, even if
it's not directly. And in the end, I
ended up breaking into Amazon and
Autodesk as a software engineering
intern. So, in the past eight months,
from just these two internships alone,
at the age of 21, I've earned close to
50 grand. But that is not the point.
What's more important is it kickstarted
my career. It helped me finally break
into big tech because something I wish I
knew earlier was building out all of
these coding projects and all for your
resume and for your own learning is
incredibly valuable and cool, but those
only get you the interviews. It gets you
to the door. But Lee code is what pushes
you through that door and finally gets
you hired. So, if you're at a stage
where you're getting interviews, but you
just can't get through them, grind your
leak code. If you aren't even getting
interviews in the first place, work on
your resume and build projects. So, to
end off this video, let me tell you what
you should do. Do not solve the 300
questions that I did. There is
absolutely no need, especially with
stuff like Cloy coming out to help you
cheat on these interviews and companies
like Snapchat saying they're moving away
from Le Code style interviews. Le Code
might be dying soon. In the meantime,
just go through the blind 75 on Le code,
complete Algo Monsters course, learn
everything from Abdul Bereie, Michael
Sambble, and Neat Cody. I literally owed
that guy half my salary. And after
you've gone through those 75 questions
and made your own documents instead of
endlessly cramming more and more
questions, whenever you get these
interviews, go to this website called
Shampers Leode Patterns, pick out the
company you got the interview for, and
just cram those. It honestly feels like
cheating. And who cares because leak
code should honestly be nowhere part of
the software engineering interview
process in my opinion. If you found any
of this helpful, make sure to leave a
like and subscribe and good luck on your
own le code journey. It will be brutal,
but it is worth it. I'll see you in the
next one.